    LECTURE 2 - TEAM AND EXECUTION

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CVfnkM44Urs

Having co founders is better than solo founder but 
having a co founder that you are not friends with is worse
than being a solo founder.

You need relentlessly resourceful co founders. Tough. Decisive.
Creative. Calm. Smart. Capable.

Model person is James Bond. xddd (????)

2-3 is the target number of founders.

How to hire -> Try not to.

Low employees is a good thing. You should be proud of what
you are capable of achieving with low number of employees.

At the beginning, hire only when you have a desperate need.

For AirBnB, they hired only 2 people in their first year.
Wrote a list of cultural values for any AirBnB.

When you absolutely have to hire, get the best people.
Mediocre engineers do not build great companies.
Even a single mediocre hire in the first 5 people will kill a startup.
Every person in a startup sets the tone.

Questions to ask-
-Are they smart?
-Do they get things done?
-Do they have good communication skills?
-Are they maniacally determined?
-Would you feel comfortable reporting to them if 
    the roles were reversed?

Sometimes, its better to ask a person to work with you
or work solo on a project to evaluate them rather than just
straight up interviews. 

It turns out you shouldn't tell your employees they're fucking up everyday
unless you want them all to leave. You've hired the best, now
keep them around.

You need to really praise your team.

-> Praise your team for all the good things that happen.
-> Take responsibility for all the bad stuff that happens.

When its not working out, fire fast. 
Its not good for the company or the employee.

How to differentiate between firing and waiting for growth
- If someone screws up once or twice but is still making some progress
thats okay, but if someone repeatedly screws up and every one of
their decision is wront, its painfully aware to everyone.

Remote working between co-founders of a startup never works.


Everything in a startup has the same vibe as the founder, dealing with customers,
dealing with problems, the determination in a company etc etc are all modelled after
the founder.

=>Focus & Intensity 

Focus on two or three things that matter and work on those 
for the day.
Try not getting distracted by starting new goals.
Set goals and repeat them to everyone. Announcements, stickers
in one-on-ones etc.

And co-founders can't be focused together without good communication
so working remotely is a massive obstacle.
Work together in person.
Remote co-founding teams is just really really hard 
and slows down each and everything.


Growth and momentum are very important.

Don't get excited by PR and popularity.
-Relentless operating rhythm
-Obsession with execution quality
-Bias towards action

Facebook - Move fast and break things but care about quality

Every time you talk to the best founders, 
they've got new things done.
Break it down into smaller projects.
-Quick
-Do whatever it takes attitude
-Show up
-Always keep momentum
-Be courageous

Sales fixes everything (momentum)

The competitor to be feared is one who never bothers about you at all
but goes on making his own business better all the time
    -Henry Ford


