    LECTURE 1 - How to start a startup

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CBYhVcO4WgI

The four important things to excelt at for startups

1. Idea
2. Product
3. Team
4. Execution

Outcome is smthn like 
    = Idea*Product*Team*Execution*Luck 
    (where Luck is a random number)


IDEAS & PRODUCT

Never start a startup just for the sake of doing so
There are much easier ways of getting rich
Passion should come first always.
Long term thinking is important.

important part of a good idea -> the business you build is hard to replicate
idea first, startup second

difficult to get a whole team of people focused and productive
in a startup without being focused on an *important mission*
and thats hard to get without a good founding idea

it usually takes a decade for a startup

the hardest part about ideas is that the best ideas look 
terrible at the beginning

Great startup ideas are an intersection of a good idea
and an idea that just seems terrible all around because if it
didn't sound terrible, there would already be people working on it

You want an idea that turns into a monopoly for a startup. 
But you can't target a large market. Theres already monopolies there.
You want to target a small market, monopolise it, and then expand quickly

The truly good ideas dont sound like they're worth stealing

You want to sound crazy but actually be right and thats a very fine line

You need a market that will be big in 10 years (Gaming)

You cannot create a market that does not want to exist.

Important question to ask yourself: Why do you think this company will should start now?
Why not 2 years in the past or the future?

Good startup ideas are most of the time very easy to explain & understand

Any company that tries to be another company but has a small differentiator, those fail.

Advantages of being a student:
-very good perspective of new technology
-thinking about new ideas always, start thinking right now
-meeting other potential co-founders, find the right people,
 as a student this might even be more important than actually starting the startup


Build something that a small number of people love than something that a large
number of people just like a little. but the end goal is to get a lot of people to love your product.

If you make something people really love, you see organic growth. 
If there isnt atleast some early organic growth then your product 
probably isnt good enough yet

Over the long run product is what matters.
Most startups lose because not because they were outcompeted but because they simply 
didn't foxus on the product enough

Its much easier to make a better product if its a simple idea.

First version of facebook was comically simple, first version of google was 
just an ugly textbox and two buttons that simply gave search results.

Pinterest went around asking people to check his website out, he went to apple stores
and set all homepages to pinterest. 
The goal is to get very close to a small group of people. Listen extremely well and you'll find feedback.

Create a feedback engine.
Ask users what they like and don't like.
Ask them what they pay for
Ask them to see if they'd be bummed if your company went away
Make the feedback loop as tight as possible => listen and respond as soon as possible.
 
When checking growth of a company, check for metrics like
-Total registratoins
-Active users
-Activity levels


